AERIAL SILK

If you need her, you can find her graciously hanging from a tree.

Jana Rosen, 24-year-old UF master of landscape architecture student, spends her downtime climbing, twisting, spinning and dropping from a silk curtain in a large oak tree on campus.

An art form that is considered part of circus arts, aerial silk portrays the beauty of silk wrapping around the body, allowing it to create a sense of elevated modern dance.

[INSERT PHOTO]

It’s not only a skill that requires a high degree of strength, power, flexibility, and bravery, but it’s also a talent that can only be mastered with practice and patience. 

Passersby can find Rosen on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons practicing in a tree next to the Broward Outdoor Recreation Center.

“This is our tree at the moment, unless we find a better climbing tree somewhere,” she said. “We like it here because it’s relatively quiet, but we still have people walk by who come and talk to us and see what we’re doing, which is fun.”

Rosen got her undergraduate degree in sustainability and the built environment in 2012. 

About three years ago, when Rosen was an undergraduate student at UF, she walked by and saw a UF club practicing aerial silk in the window, and decided to try it herself.

“As soon as I came home the first day, I knew this was something I was going to be doing for years,” she said, I knew I wanted to keep going with it.”

Rosen did gymnastics as a kid for about two years. She said she wasn’t very serious about it and mainly practiced in her backyard herself. Little did she know the strength and flexibility would help her with a talent she would pursue later in her life.

Rosen said it took her about a year to become comfortable working on her own and doing drops without a spotter. 

“I was a little bit frustrated because it took time,” she said. “It takes everyone time to learn how to climb and do the basic moves, but I knew that I wanted to stick with it.”

Rosen recruited one of her classmates, Joseph Craig Lackua, a senior landscape architecture student from Palm Beach Gardens to practice with her. 

[INSERT PHOTO OF LACKUA ALONE]

This is the first time that Rosen has experimented with partner work, as she teaches Lackua techniques on the silk that they bought over winter break.

“Before, we were solely in the studio,” Lackua said. “We didn’t have our own equipment, and now we’re really excited because we can practice whenever.” 

Lackua said he embraces the fact that students walk over to check out what they’re doing. 
“If try to explain something, even if I explain it wrong, I pick it up quicker,” he said. 

Rosen said she dragged Lackua into trying silks.

“I wanted to do a little bit of partner stuff,” she said. “It’s easier if the guy is the base.” 

[INSERT PARTNER PHOTO HERE]

Lackua said it’s been a challenge and as soon as something stops hurting, something else hurts. 
“Even the more experienced people, I’ve been noticing, the more bruises you have, the more advanced you are,” he sai. 

[INSERT PHOTO OF THEM CLIMBING TO SET UP THE SILK]

It takes them about 20 minutes to set up the silk. They sometimes use a ladder or rope to get up or climb if they have a good climbing tree. 

“We’re just learning ourselves about rigging from this tree, and it’s been a fun experience,” she said. “This is all new to me because we’re used to having the studio where they’re permanent.”

When she’s not practicing with Lackua, Rosen gets training from club officers at their meetings. They train at different levels to work on different skills. 

Rosen said she eventually wants to work for a landscape architecture firm, and if that doesn’t work out, she wants to join a circus. “That’s the backup plan,” she said. “I’ll be doing it recreationally forever because I’m obsessed with it.” 

Rosen and Lackua said they like to teach people and have them try it as they walk by.

“A lot of times when people walk over and they’re interested, we’ll try to teach them the basic climb,” she said. “It’s nice to explain it to someone else, because then it solidifies it to you and you understand it better.”

[INSERT PICTURE OF THEM TEACHING NEWBIES]

Rosen said that when people first watch her, they think it takes mostly upper body strength to pull their bodies up, but it’s mostly leg strength and then core. 
“It does take some arm strength, but not to the extent that it looks like,” she said.

[INSERT CLOSE UP PICTURE OF LEG MOVEMENTS]


“It’s kind of nice because doing this encourages me to go to the gym and work out,” she said.  “When I was first getting into it, I would go and train outside of the aerial studio because I wanted to be stronger and better at it.” 

Rosen and Lackua said they have noticed that the circus community is extremely encouraging and welcoming to new people who want to try the skills. 

“No one ever looks down on anyone because they can’t do something,” he said. “We all just want to help each other get better. If you’re an outsider and you’re coming in, it’s that welcoming feeling that you’re being invited.”
