BARISTA INTERVIEW: Maude's

-Name: Layne Wrighton

-Age: 26

[Tell me a little bit about yourself]

“I’ve always enjoyed baking and food, so food is probably my number one interest. I came to Maude’s because I transferred to Gainesville and my dad actually owns Maude’s. At first, I was going to get another job and then I just asked him, ‘well what if I work for you,’ so I;’ve been working here for 6 years now and I worked my way up to a baker’s position. At first, I started out hosting and then I served and then did register and then I was a barista and I got trained on baking which is what I’ve always wanted to do and then when we expanded our menu, Food-wise, then I helped create the new menu. When the other baker left, I revamped some of the baking stuff as well, so that was really fun. On the side, I do art. I’m a seamstress and do costume design. So, artistic passions and reading books. I actually just got done reading Harry Potter. This is like the fourth time. I’m just reverting back to childhood—going back and remembering all those great books I read as a kid.”

“I wish I had more time to bake at home, but I’m always working.”
“I’m here like anywhere from 30 to 40 hours a week. But I also do all of the desserts at Amelia’s, the Italian restaurant behind the Hippodrome. That’s my savings account job, basically. There’s definitely a difference between working there and here. Here’s a little bit more involved, I deal with customers and just working with other people. Over there, I’m by myself.”

“I’m always making coffee. I’m always the barista.  I’m always the registered person. Sometimes, I get to do baking or make a food order. So, I still get to do baking shifts, which I really like. For making coffee, I’ve gotten really good at my foam now, so I’m really excited—like dabbling in foam art.”

“I do costumes for myself and then I did an art show for a friend of mine. I did kind of fashion dresses and it worked well with the installation that we did. I worked with the director, Jessica, who I work with at Amelia’s. She directs plays and she asked me to do the costumes for a play that she did…This is kind of my community service but also my art outlet as well.” 

What inspires you?

“Good-tasting food. I’m a bit of a people pleaser, so definitely making a customer happy and if someone’s not exactly sure what they want…doing foam art, having fun while I’m here.”

-Why Maude’s? What makes it different?

“I’ve had some opportunities to get jobs at other places, and I’ve been here for 6 years now, so there’s definitely motivation to hang on and part of that is definitely my dad and out relationship has been able to grow since working together…and also he’s very easy to work for and with. The way we do the hiring here is that the employees hire, so you’re always able to choose the people you want to work with.”
Everybody hangs out outside of Maude’s and everybody does enjoy each other’s company when we are here. Nobody has gotten into any fights.” 

“We’re able to have influence.” Matthew (owner, my dad) wants employees to have their own artistic influence. 
“We should want to do things. He doesn’t want to have to make us do things—want to work together to make this place really work and make customers happy and enjoy themselves while they’re here.”

“I remember when he was first opening it, it used to be at the Big Lou’s location. So before Big Lou   We were only there for about a year and a half, and I remember coming here a kids, my sister and I…It was really fun watching it build.”

“I remember folding towels when I was a kid. It was my sister and I’s competition of  who could fold the towels the fastest and in the neatest piles.”

Maude’s have been open for about 17 years.

-What’s the best part about working at Maude’s?

“Getting to do specials, coming up with really awesome soups, just being able to do new creative stuff all the time and really push my limits as a baker.” 

“Our core menu stays the same but we always have specials going.  We do a lot of gluten-free specials.” 

-What’s the worst part about working at Maude’s?

I think the worst part if having to trespass people and having to ask people to leave. Normally, that involves very drunk and/or homeless people getting aggressive…I don’t want to do it, and it just makes me anxious.” 

-It’s a customer’s first time. What do you recommend? 

“I’ll usually recommend the special we have going, which changed every few days, just depending on how well it’s selling, or I’ll just suggest a regular cup of coffee. The Maude’s iced coffee is our signature iced coffee and that’s really good. We’re doing the dark chocolate cherry latte right now, which is one that I came up with.”

-What’s the most popular drink?

“Our black iced coffee or just a regular cup of coffee. A lot of chais.” 

-When you’re hyped on coffee, you _______

“when I’m hyped up on coffee I usually start stalking everything, cleaning, and usually chatting up customers way too much. I get silly—and I get really efficient.”  





-What’s a normal day like at Maude’s?

“The early morning are not super busy, we usually have one or two people coming in—so we can do baking and stuff, We’ve been getting food orders—our mornings are busier and then it just gets steadily busy…once it gets closer to 11, we have a lot more people coming in for breakfast as well as lunch. Definitely afternoons have been a lot busier lately where people are ordering lunch...it definitely always slows down once it gets closer to 5 pr 6, because we still serve food into the evening, but it’s not really a dinner menu, so we have people coming in at night on dates and coming in to study—come in from 5-7 and study until we close. So, the nights are a little bit slower overall compared to the daytime. We usually end up closing the food kitchen between 7 and 8 because nobody’s ordering anything”

“Group dates are really popular—groups of friends or double dating. I think a lot of people do the online meets here. I think it’s a really big place for that, which I find really endearing because it means that they trust us—they feel like this is a comfortable place for them to come, and that’s really awesome.”

-Regulars vs. first-timers?

“Regulars come in every day. There’s maybe like 10-20 regulars that I see every time I’m here, maybe even more than that. More than anything, the regulars keep us afloat, but I’ve noticed over the last year, we’ve had a lot more people here for the first time. Now, I feel like it’s become even.”

“It’s always fun when people come in and they’re showing someone else around like it’s their first time.”

-Is this your go-to coffee shop when you’re not working? 

“Oh yeah, for sure. I’ve actually been wanting to try out the coffee shop that they have in the CMC because a couple of my friends work there, but it’s such a habit to just come here first…There’s always somebody sitting outside that I know or I’m friends with—they’re always somebody that I know that I’m running into and just having a good conversation with.”

-If you had to describe this coffee shop in one word, what would it be?

“Soul. It’s got soul. For a while, I thought we had ghosts here, so there might actually be some souls here…”

-What’s something most people don’t know about Maude’s?

“Usually that they used to be at the Big Lou’s location. A lot of people are surprised by that even if they’ve been coming here forever…and before that it was a wedding service. I don’t think anybody knows the owner [Mathew Wrighton] used to be a DJ for 10 years.” 

_Any other comments about Maude’s? 

“Well we’re talking about expanding. I’m really excited about that, and it means I get to dive further into the menu and expand the menu and bring some tapas…so we’re about to do some revamping. I really hope that it brings even more people in. The place next door emptied out, so we’re talking about knocking down parts of walls and opening up the front windows again. I’m hoping to do more specialty cake orders with the expansion and more baking—be able to eventually make our own bread—at least start making gluten-free bread so we have a gluten-free option. It’s in the planning stage right now.” 


