BARISTA INTERVIEW: Karma Cream

-Name: Kyle Fick, owner
-Age: 29
[Tell me a little bit about yourself]
“I came to Gainesville for school. I graduated with a political science degree, but I wasn’t really feeling that anymore and about a couple years after graduating [I started] working on this place. In the meantime, I was just playing music and working at restaurants until I kind of discovered I wanted to do something on my own.” 
Fick studied at UF and graduated in 2006.I play guitar. I’m in a local band called Sunshine State. Lucy’s, Boca, Atlantic. We like to jam out. We go out of town a lot.”

What inspires you? 
“I opened this with—I had a partner at the time but now I’m the only owner—but we both had the purpose of doing something that was cruelty-free, socially responsible as well. Everything here is organic—our milk—it’s all grass-fed, hormone-free treated cows. We’re also very vegan-friendly. My wife, she’s vegan. I’m vegetarian myself.  So there was kind of a purpose to this as well than just making money and scooping ice-cream. This is kind of a means to the end. I’d rather have an option that people might feel better about.”

Fick said he never thought he would go into this business.
“I got a political science degree—didn’t think I wanted to do anything with that once I graduated. It’s a broad degree. I didn’t want to go to law school. I worked in restaurants. I did a little bit of sales-type stuff too and I kind of from early on didn’t want to work for anyone else and wanted to play by my own rules. So far it’s working out.”

-How long have you worked here? Fick has been the owner for almost five years, since Karma Cream has been open (April 2009) Started at same location.

-Why Karma Cream? What makes it different?
“We are committed to sourcing everything [as] organic as possible. For one, it’s much better for the planet, it’s much better for harvesters, it’s much better for the animals. Plus, you go out and get a coffee or latte and there’s a bug mark-up there. It’s very cheap to brew a cup of coffee, so why not make sure it’s the best. You go to a restaurant and usually it’s a terrible ingredient and they make 20 bucks for a plate—something you can make at home with better ingredients. I kind of felt the logic behind marking up something that….”

Has selection of Loose Leaf Teas
Specialty: Lavender Earl Grey Latte
People order coffee more than tea.

-What’s the best part about working at Karma Cream?
“I love when people are just so happy with what they get here. We have a lot of people who are vegan or lack-toast intolerant, and the fact that they can eat things that they could never eat. To make people genuinely happy—I mean, that’s something that you expect from a kid—but grown people that are just so happy—that’s such an awesome thing to be a part of.”

-What’s the worst part about working at Karma Cream?

“Just the responsibilities of being an owner—to try and juggle the responsibilities of working here all the time to taking care of all the back-end things as well—wearing a lot of different hats. It’s a challenge for sure, but it’s working out.”

-It’s a customer’s first time. What do you recommend? 

“I first ask what you’re here for. We have ice-cream—that’s probably most of our sales—at least 50% of ur sales is ice-cream and the rest is our date stuff or coffee. I think our ice cream is amazing, It’s organic, and we can even combine two: ice-cream floats—get the ice-cream in your coffee. So, we can get weird with it, for sure.”

Out of the Coffee options: 
“I recommend an almond milk latte. A lot of people want something different than dairy or want something different than soy. I like to keep it classic—a shot of espresso with some milk.”

-What’s the most popular drink? 

Special right now: Lavender Earl Grey Latte, 
“We’ve been trying to add a lot of new things.”
Change the specials about once a month. We might change a special into a main item—a lot of it’s just employee ideas, they just experiment.” 

-When you’re hyped on coffee, you _______

“I actually don’t drink much coffee for that reason. I’ve always been pretty high-energy myself. When I drink coffee, I’m pumped. I’ll be running all over the place. I can do anything. It’s like a drug.”

Intention for the place from the start: ice-cream and coffee. “We see coffee grow a lot and we have to do a lot with very little amount of space. We can get backed up pretty easy on a busy day just because demand is definitely going up since we opened.”

-What’s a normal day like at Karma Cream?
“In the mornings, it’s pretty slow and I’ll get things open and I’ll start baking cupcakes, baking croissants. We make vegan croissants as well. That’s a new thing that’s come out that ‘s been very popular. We get a rush around lunch. We do have some sandwich options that are vegan-friendly so people come here and guarantee they’ll get something vegan. It stays pretty steady until about 7 or 8 pm. when we get the evening ice-cream crowd and studiers. A lot of studiers come out—we have free Wi-Fi.”

8-10 or 8-11 p.m. We’ll stay pretty busy till late in that night—that’s why we close at 1:30. A lot of cafes close at like 7 or 8. We used to be open till 3. We tried 24 hours for a bit.”

[ratio of studiers to people on dates or with friends: 50/50.]
“Every day, all day, at a table, you’ve got someone studying or hanging out and studying. Everyone’s doing something now on their iPhone  or iPad.”

-What’s the weirdest thing that has happened at Karma Cream?

“Homeless people hanging around. “But we don’t get too much of that, it could be worse.”

-Regulars vs. first-timers?

“We have dailies and we have a lot of first-timers. If someone doesn’t look familiar, I’ll ask if they’ve been here before. There are new people every day. I’d say we get more regulars and then first-timers become regulars. It’s the circle of life.”

-Is this your go-to coffee shop when you’re not working? 

“This is definitely it. There will be other baristas who come here too [from other coffee shops], which is weird; I mean, this is the go-to place. I’m pretty proud of that. I don’t know of other places that do organic milk off the top of my head. That’s a huge deal. You pay 3 bucks for a latte.”

-If you had to describe this coffee shop in one word, what would it be?
“I’d say karma. That’s kind of why we named it.”

Karma Cream name: 
“It was an alliteration, so that’s always a go-to. I’m not a Buddhist or Hindu, but definitely when I think of karma—realizing where and how you get products…you definitely have that purpose in mind that you know, you put good karma back out there. It’s on the more personal side of things. I think people appreciate that. Every ingredient I source, I make sure it’s organic. I cherry-pick from a lot of places.”


-What’s something most people don’t know about Karma Cream?

“We have fair trade. It took a year to open, which is a terrible thing. It was a smoke shop. It was a complete wreck in here.”
[before and after picture on Facebook]

“Everything was tore up. It wasn’t intended to be a café. It was kind of a weird set-up. We had to do lot of work to get this place to make any kind of sense. It’d definitely small. We’ve outgrown it so we do our best to meet the demand. We certainly need more space. I try to be pretty conservative. It’s best to work with what you have. Until you’re 100 percent sure you’ve outgrown it. In the meantime, you should play it safe and don’t mess with the formula.”

“I’d never had a business before, so just the fact that it’s working well. I’m very fortunate the lucky that this has worked out really well—to make a living at least.”
