Nestled off of NW eighth Avenue, CYM Coffee Co. is known to its regulars as a home away from home. With a wrap around porch, bean bag chairs and a fat cat that permanently resides on a bench outside, CYM aims to reach out to the community, fostering creativity.
Meet your barista: Tom Thorkildson, a 41-year-old musician and bartender who has been with CYM since it opened its doors in 2012. When he’s not behind the counter, he might be playing guitar at CYM’s open mic night on Thursdays.

Q. Why CYM? What makes it different?
A. Well I think that just everything here, the whole cymplify community, we have other stores than just the coffee shop. We really try to focus on quality and customer service. It’s pretty typical of most coffee shops, though. We have a pretty laid back atmosphere.

Q. What’s the best part about working at CYM?
A. I love the job here, I love cym, there is really nothing bad about it.

Q. What’s the worst part about working at CYM?
A. I can’t even think about something bad about it. It’s just great.

Q. It’s a customer’s first time. What do you recommend? 
A. I like to steer people into trying coffee from different places and different origins. I start people off, if their interested, in trying different types of coffee and then we get into different brew methods. I usually try to do something that will compliment the flavor of the coffee, but we have a lot of cool specialty drinks that are cool and fun.

Q. What’s the most popular drink?
A. Mint Mocha

Q. When I’m hyped on coffee, I ___________
A. I do math better?

Q. What’s a normal day like at CYM?
A. A normal day here is you meet somebody new and make a connection. There is a lot of networking going on. You end up introducing someone to someone else. It’s very community oriented here. Everyone knows everyone. It’s just like working at Cheers. 

Q. What’s the weirdest thing that has happened at CYM?
A. Because we have nursery, we often see wildlife we’ve seen fox and eagles and all sorts of different raptors. Some egrets come down and hangout. Seems like there’s always something funny going on around here. A fox showed up on our front porch one day.

Q. Is this your go-to coffee shop when you’re not working? 
A. I’m always here, I really don’t go to any other coffee shops. 

Q. If you had to describe this coffee shop in one word, what would it be?
A. Original.

Q. What’s something most people don’t know about CYM?
A. It stands for Change Your Mind.
