(Purpose of story: How can we be more energy efficient? Off the grid denotes certain stereotypes. We’re debunking them with this story)

Pat Griggs laughs as he remembers hurricane season nine years ago.

Any Floridian knows the feeling. Storm comes. Damage ensues. Power dies. Life stops. Mundane acts become daily struggles. Hurricanes like Katrina, Rita and Wilma created a living hell in 2005. 

For Griggs, assistant librarian for the Alachua County Library, hurricane season doesn’t mean a departure from normalcy. He’s lived off the grid for 22 years. He generates his own electricity from a four-inch well that pumps water with a 12-volt solar-powered pump and pressurizes it to his house.

“The truth is that during the worst of times, significant weather events like hurricanes, I’m still producing power and I’m still taking a hot shower,” Griggs says. 

Griggs isn’t the anti-establishment stereotype that going off the grid shouts. He’s a typical working-class individual whose ingenuity has him saving money and making friends, especially during high-volume storm seasons. 

“During that period of time, I was very popular with my neighbors,” he says of 2005.

***

I lived in a modest three-bedroom, two-bath house for 12 years in Southwest Miami Dade. My parents moved from Pasadena, Calif., three months before Hurricane Andrew. The storm destroyed my father’s car and my city’s once pristine image of South Beach neon lights, palm trees and quaint suburbs. There wasn’t a city in many places.

Hurricanes became a part of growing up. “Hurricane Days” meant no school, but also in some cases it meant no television and no air conditioning. I’d take a day of math and science over a day with no air conditioning in muggy South Florida.

Hearing Griggs reminisce about 2005, which featured three of the six most intense Atlantic Hurricanes ever, brought me back to my childhood where I’d stay up for the 11 p.m. local news just to hear school get cancelled. It brought me back to the sporting event cancellations. 

It also reminded me of the flood outside my door during Hurricane Irene—a Category 1 storm in 1999. The avocado tree that fell through my parents’ window and nearly took out my sister during Hurricane Wilma and the sheer fear Hurricane Floyd brought as the Category 5 super storm swirled away from Miami.

There’s a certain comfort electricity provides. Sure, re-runs of Spongebob Squarepants do little against Mother Nature, but there’s something to be said about a hot shower and morning cartoons in a time of crisis. 

Off the grid living represents more than convenience during hurricane season. That’s certainly a start, but in progressive Gainesville, Fla., the birthplace of one of America’s first Feed-in-Tariff programs, off the grid is rooted in economics, politics and good ole’ fashioned American entrepreneurship.

***
Interviewed Alachua County Commissioner Mike Byerly for 30 minutes. Will bring him in here and talk about the history of Gainesville as a progressive city. Gave me some good information about the FiT program. Why did the FiT program get suspended? Here is a good paper from Harvard: http://web.mit.edu/lstokes/www/docs/Stokes&Lee_2012_Gainesville_FIT_case.pdf

GRU is getting back to me. I already talked to their spokesperson. Numbers and figures will go in here as well.

***
Insert part about my parents buying solar panels to put atop our roof in Miami. What were the thoughts behind it? No quotes. 

***
How can people be more energy efficient? What does it entail? Use quotes from Byerly, Griggs and Wayne Irwin who describe the process with good detail. How can we make this mainstream? Is off-the-grid the right term? This has more to do with solar energy.

(Potential line transitioning to Mycol Stevens) Searching off the grid on Google, it became clear that one man had taken this off-the-grid thing to a whole another level. 
***
Insert anecdotes about Bakr’s and my drive to the Finca farm. Interview set for 3/29 at 9 a.m. We are supposed to get a tour. Will learn how somebody truly lives off the grid. He represents the extreme. What did I learn from this? Transition into is solar living a viable option?

***
How can people, not originally environmentally focused, actually benefit from solar living practices? Round out the story with first steps people can take to conserve energy. Will have quotes from every source involved. Last couple of lines will be anecdotes from each source with the last one coming from the Finca farm for some actual scenery.

Photos/Info graphics:
-Bakr will shoot photos at Mycol Stevens’ Finca farm. He is a well known off-the-grid guy.
-Want to make a graphic on off-the-grid solar living. Need to compile numbers.
