UPD's Rape Aggression Defense Program Lets Women Call the Shots


Hulking toward her in the darkness, the faceless aggressor takes many forms.

For one woman, he is the high school football player she couldn’t push away. For another, he represents not one person but the three boys who surrounded her and beat her up one night in middle school. For most, he is an unknown attacker who may not exist but haunts her imagination, always close behind in a parking lot.

“Stop!” they yell, somewhat startled by their own voices at first. They muster more confidence to shout “stay back!” before kicking his groin or striking hard at his face. They make a run for the door, and the experience is over as quickly as it began.

The participants in the Rape Aggression Defense program are never really alone, though, nor in any danger. Certified R.A.D. self-defense instructors are behind them the whole time yelling suggestions and encouraging words, which they hope will come back to the women in a real violent encounter.

R.A.D. Systems are the world’s largest network of self-defense programs designed for women. According to its website, R.A.D. instructors have taught more than 900,000 women the basics of personal safety and hands-on physical techniques since its founding in 1989.

UFPD’s program is unlike most in that it is funded completely by the police department, which allowed 437 women in the campus community to take the basic course last year for free. UPD will even begin offering self-defense classes for men this year.

Women can register for a series of four classes that take place over two weeks. Following an informational overview of risk reduction and avoidance, the class progresses to learning and practicing moves such as blocking, hitting and kicking. The participants put their skills to the test on the final night by escaping three increasingly difficult attack simulations.

Danna Regnier, 21, couldn’t walk anywhere alone without remembering being bullied and beat up as a girl in China. The UF sophomore and Innovation Academy student decided it was time to change that by taking the R.A.D. course and found herself reliving those experiences during simulations, she said.

“I thought I was going to pass out the moment I stepped in the door,” Regnier said. “Especially in the second one, it was dark so it looked just like the night I was beaten up.”

After struggling to find her voice, Regnier fought back and kept fighting to successfully escape each scenario. Those victories have given her the confidence to walk with her chin up from now on, she said.

“I used to be afraid of just being by myself walking on the street,” Regnier said. “You can hear it in my voice I’m not afraid of going out anymore.”

UF psychology freshman Laura Bautista, 18, took the class after finding herself on her own for the first time when her parents moved from her hometown of Miami to Texas around the time she started college.

“It’s really different to be kind of on your own and no one is really looking out,” Bautista said. “If I don’t show up, no one’s going to really wonder. They’re going to think I’m at a friend’s or something.”

Many female freshmen find themselves in a similar situation due to a lifetime of being told to rely on external sources to ensure their personal safety, such as staying with someone else, preferably a trusted man, or keeping a dog or gun.

“As a woman, you’re constantly reminded you’re weak or not physically strong. You’re constantly in your mind a potential target for violence,” said Tina Lamb, state director for R.A.D. programs in Florida and program coordinator for the University of Florida Police Department. “Once you gain confidence in that area, then it just kind of overflows into every other part.”

After taking the course, Bautista said she plans to return to improve her self-defense skills but feels much more comfortable being alone.

“When I’m walking alone, there are things that come to mind like what I should be doing and what I should be looking out for now,” Bautista said. “The circumstances haven’t really changed, but it’s me that’s changed so I can approach things a little better.”

Lamb, 32, has never been a victim of violence herself, but she also felt constantly in danger until R.A.D. came into her life in 2003.

"Before I took the class, I was a fraidy cat,” she said. “Especially living on my own in college, when I thought about the possibility of facing violence, it was almost a foregone conclusion in my mind that I couldn’t stop it.”

The Gainesville native had no experience with self-defense, fighting or martial arts before she took the R.A.D. course with a co-worker as part of training for her first full-time job at the UF Department of Student Financial Affairs, where she began working after graduating from UF with a bachelor’s degree in classical studies.

Lamb loved the class so much that she convinced the other women in her department to take the course, too. Her enthusiasm for the program spread to her husband, Sergeant Jeffrey Lamb of the UPD Community Services Division, who was then an officer. Having known Tina for 12 years, Jeffrey has seen firsthand how R.A.D. changed his wife.

“She is a completely different person after becoming involved with R.A.D.,” he said. “She’s more self-confident, she’ll stand up for herself, she’ll tell people what her expectations are and she is not shy when it comes to her personal safety.”

The couple became certified as instructors in 2007, and Jeffrey was the program coordinator for UPD from 2007 to 2010. With Tina currently serving as UPD program coordinator and state director, Jeffrey now usually contributes by playing the role of the aggressor.

Since becoming state director in July 2012, Tina Lamb has focused on supporting newer R.A.D. programs elsewhere in north central Florida, helping them get the equipment, instructional help and funds they need to expand the in their area. This tight-knit group of instructors from Chiefland, Tampa and the Suwannee River Valley area.

For example, professional child advocate Morgan Bright, 23, has been a R.A.D. instructor for a little more than a year and has run the Ocala program almost entirely with borrowed equipment and help from instructors in neighboring cities. The Ocala Police Department provided Bright with a room and training mat, but the department decided in February to begin funding the program with Bright as coordinator.

“I’m going to be sad that I won’t see everybody as often because we’re a pretty tight-knit group,” Bright said of the other regional instructors. “I’ve gotten such a great response from the community, though. It’s been amazing.”

A survivor of two sexual assaults in high school, Bright was encouraged to take the R.A.D. class by her mother when she started college at USF. Unprepared for the emotional triggers that would bring those memories back, she broke down crying during simulations and got help from the victim advocate who was there.

It took three years for Bright to go back, but she credits the R.A.D. class with forcing her to confront the past and move on with her life.

“R.A.D. has been my therapy, the only time I worked through the emotions, because I didn’t have to say anything,” Bright said. “I hit something and it’s pretty nice.”

For women who have survived acts of violence, taking the R.A.D. course can be as therapeutic as it is practical. Part of being an instructor is observing the women in class to see if they are uncomfortable or need encouragement because of a past incident, Lamb said.

“Some women will never need to be there because of the class,” Lamb said. “For others who have been there it gives them a victory, some confidence to move forward and help put down that emotional burden they’ve been carrying around.”

The effects of the program on the women extend well beyond a physical altercation. Women who have received self-defense training have been shown to be more assertive in the workplace, more self-confident and less anxious overall, according to a University of Illinois at Springfield review of 20 studies on the subject.

“It’s changed a lot about the way I carry myself and work and all kinds of things,” Lamb said. “I used to not be very assertive and used to be pretty passive, and now I pretty much say whatever I think whenever I want.”
