AERIAL SILK

If you need her, you can find her graciously hanging from a tree.

Jana Rosen, 24-year-old UF master of landscape architecture student, spends her downtime climbing, twisting, spinning and dropping from a silk curtain in a large oak tree on campus.

An art form that is considered part of circus arts, aerial silk portrays the beauty of silk wrapping around the body, allowing it to create a sense of elevated modern dance.

[INSERT PHOTO]

It’s not only a skill that requires a high degree of strength, power, flexibility, and bravery, but it’s also a talent that can only be mastered with practice and patience. 

Those passing by can find Rosen on Tuesday and Thursday afternoons practicing in a tree next to the Broward Outdoor Recreation Center.

“This is our tree at the moment, unless we find a better climbing tree somewhere,” she said. “We like it here because it’s relatively quiet, but we still have people walk by who come and talk to us and see what we’re doing, which is fun.”

[INSERT PHOTO]

Rosen got her undergraduate degree in sustainability and the built environment in 2012. 

About three years ago, when Rosen was an undergraduate student at UF, she walked by and saw a UF club practicing aerial silk in the window, and decided to try it herself.

“As soon as I came home the first day, I knew this was something I was going to be doing for years,” she said, “I knew I wanted to keep going with it.”

Rosen did gymnastics as a young girl for about two years. She said she wasn’t very serious about it and mainly practiced in her backyard herself. Little did she know the strength and flexibility would help her with a talent she would pursue later in her life.

Rosen said it took her about a year to become comfortable working on her own and doing drops without a spotter. 

“I was a little bit frustrated because it took time,” she said. “It takes everyone time to learn how to climb and do the basic moves, but I knew that I wanted to stick with it.”

Corey Souza, owner and artistic director at S-Connection Aerial Arts, said the best way to physically prepare for practicing aerial silk is to take an aerial conditioning class.
“There’s so much preparation work and just basic core strengthening that needs to be done before you can start getting up in the air,” she said.

Souza said push-ups, planks, pull-ups and leg lifts are ideal exercises for basic conditioning, and it’s important to think about technique and posture.

“If you don’t them right on the ground, when you get in the air, it’s just going to be a disaster,” she said. “If you can do the conditioning class with good form and good technique, then you can do anything.” 


For Rosen, the most challenging thing about doing aerial silk was core strength, and she had to work on strengthening her abs to be able to do certain things.

“I play out my strengths such as flexibility and focus on those on my pieces,” she said.

Rosen recruited one of her classmates, Joseph Craig Lackey, a fouth-year UF landscape architecture student from Palm Beach Gardens to practice with her. 

“My intentions are to become good and develop multiple skill sets,” he said, “and I would be content just staying on the silk for more than three minutes.”


[INSERT PHOTO OF LACKUA ALONE]

This is the first time that Rosen has experimented with partner work, as she teaches Lackey techniques on the silk that they bought over winter break.

Rosen said she dragged Lackey into trying aerial silk.

“I wanted to do a little bit of partner stuff,” she said. “It’s easier if the guy is the base.” 

Souza said that when it comes to partner work, performers need to make sure they are in tune and fully connected with each other so that they move together. 

“They have to breathe together and by so in synch that they can read each other’s minds,” she said.

[INSERT PARTNER PHOTO HERE]

Lackey said it’s been a challenge and as soon as something stops hurting, something else hurts. 

“Even the more experienced people, I’ve been noticing, the more bruises you have, the more advanced you are,” he said. 

It takes them about 20 minutes to set up the silk. They sometimes use a ladder or rope to get up or climb if they have a good climbing tree. 

“We’re just learning ourselves about rigging from this tree, and it’s been a fun experience,” she said. “This is all new to me because we’re used to having the studio where they’re permanent.”

Rosen and Lackey said they like to teach people and have them try it as they walk by.

“A lot of times when people walk over and they’re interested, we’ll try to teach them the basic climb,” Rosen said. “It’s nice to explain it to someone else, because then it solidifies it to you and you understand it better.”

Lackey said he embraces the fact that students walk over to check out what they’re doing. “If try to explain something, even if I explain it wrong, I pick it up quicker,” he said. 


Rosen said that when people first watch her, they think it takes mostly upper body strength to pull their bodies up, but it’s mostly leg strength and then core. 
“It does take some arm strength, but not to the extent that it looks like,” she said.

[INSERT CLOSE UP PICTURE OF LEG MOVEMENTS]

Souza said that similar to most forms of dance, the strength of the core is the most important, and dancers work and develop from the center outward. 

“It’s your core strength because you’re always shifting your weight between your legs and your arms, but you really have to have that connection to your deep abdominal muscles,” she said.


Rosen and Lackey said they have noticed that the circus community is extremely encouraging and welcoming to new people who want to try the skills. 

“No one ever looks down on anyone because they can’t do something,” he said. “We all just want to help each other get better. If you’re an outsider and you’re coming in, it’s that welcoming feeling that you’re being invited.”

Souza said that dancing on silk can be very dangerous, and beginners or people who want to try aerial silk for the first time should seek real instruction instead of trying to learn it themselves. 

The best advice she has for beginners are to take care of and have patience with their bodies. 

“You will get used to it. You’ll have blisters. You’re going to lose skin off your arms and the back of your legs,” Souza said. “All pain is temporary if you can achieve really really amazing things.”


[FINAL PHOTO]

