At 5:30 p.m. on a rainy Wednesday, the University Club was dim and deserted. Chastity Rose opened the bar 30 minutes earlier; I met her there, upstairs, where there were only two or three other people and the quiet background noise of the TV screen playing a movie. 

Chastity led me into the dressing room at the back of the second floor. It was a clean, compact space, with mirrors on every wall that reflected the harsh yellow light. At 6’1”, Chastity towered over me, but the difference disappeared when we perched side-by-side on the counter. I asked her to tell me about herself: her life, goals, family and job. Chastity didn’t just bartend at the University Club – she performed as a drag queen.

“My first time coming here and seeing a drag show, I was like, ‘I want to do that,’” she said. 

That was 2003. Chastity was 18 years old, a freshman at University of Florida and in an abusive relationship. Her eventual immersion in the drag queen community gave her a confidence boost and, soon enough, the strength to escape that situation. 

“I used to be horribly insecure, very shy, very withdrawn – very much an introvert,” she said. “Now you can’t shut me up. I have no problem talking to people or speaking my mind on any subject, whether you want to hear it or not. 

“I think getting on stage and pretty much saying, ‘Fuck you, here I am,’ has really helped me change as a person.”

Today, she doesn’t have a show to put on – not one that involves music and costumes, anyway – and she’s dressed in a t-shirt and jeans, a more masculine presentation at odds with the light makeup she wears. 

“If it wasn’t such a huge hassle, I’d be a chick all the time,” she said. “I’m not exactly sure how far I’ll transition. I haven’t quite figured that out. I think I’m just aiming for androgyny for now.”

Chastity’s stage persona has been in flux since she began performing. She described her current style as “a little hood, a little ghetto, a lot of dark humor and quick wit and a little theater.” 

The latter is combined with a heavy dose of themed costumes, all of which Chastity sewed herself. She said costume making is one of the most enjoyable parts of performing.

“I love it when people say they love my dresses, and I’m like, ‘Yeah, I made this,’” she said. “‘Yeah, I made it from scratch, this was on my floor about an hour ago.  It was in pieces. Now it’s an outfit.’ Bam. Magic.”

Chastity plans on taking her costumes and dark humor to the Miss Tampa Bay Comedy Queen Pageant in May. 

“My mother came to nationals,” Chastity said. “It was her first time at a drag show, and it was kind of a big thing for her to be there.” [nationals of what? more info needed]

Before beginning her routine that day, Chastity took the mic and gave her mom a special message: “I wanna say – my mother’s in the audience, it was her birthday yesterday. I just wanna say to her, I am so sorry!”

Later, the competition’s promoter introduced himself to Chastity’s mother. 

He said, “You don’t mind me calling her ‘her,’ do you?”

Chastity’s mother responded, “Oh, no. I’m used to it by now.”

Although her family took some time to come around, Chastity has always had a supportive community of friends at the UC. At this point in the our conversation, others have started coming in and out of the dressing room, bidding hello to Chastity as they do. 

“How you doin’, honey?” she greets in return. “You’re all here so early, too.”

Making friends is no problem, but dating is a different story. 

“A lot of my drag queen sisters are lucky enough to have such supportive boyfriends now, and I find it amazing because that’s usually what turns people off from dating someone like me, is the drag thing,” she said. “It’s so weird what people think about drag queens because of imitating women.”

She’s encountered stereotypes that drag queens must be weak or docile, or that they must be femme all the time, or that they only bottom in bed. 

“I do have sex in drag, but a lot of my sisters find it weird that I do,” she said. 

[notes: wants to be a novelist; highlight of performing, likes shocking people;] [need conclusion for her section]

Erik arrived at Maude’s about ten minutes after I did with short brown hair stylishly coiffed, neatly trimmed beard and a modest button-down shirt. He blended seamlessly into the small crowd of college-age coffee-drinkers pouring over books and creating a low hum of chatter. 

He’s reserved and low-key. There’s a hint of a southern drawl to his voice. But he was direct and unabashed as he tells me about his drag queen alter ego, Jazzmine Divine. 

“They’re two different people,” Erik said of himself and his stage persona. “They don’t ever bleed together. I like to be my self and she can be hers.” 

Erik has been a drag queen for five years. At 17, he began experimenting with wigs and makeup, and a year later he was working at the UC. He admits that there was a steep learning curve.

“I started out looking like an ugly stepsister,” he said frankly.

Still, he was good enough as a newcomer to win one of the UC’s amateur nights, and that was when he met Kelsey Divine, the queen who would take him under her wing as his drag mother. She features in some of his earliest memories at the UC. 

“We would be here late at night after a show, walking around downtown, very much – at that point, stubble’s coming out, you’re very much a man at that point, in high heels, walking down the street,” he recalled. “And cars are passing by honking. People thinking you’re a prostitute, you turn around and they’re like—oh, oh, no, you’re not.”

His drag mother taught him some technical basics, like makeup tips such as how to do contours on his face.

“And then she was kind of like, ‘Okay, the rest is up to you to figure out,’” he said.

The rest had to do with creating an identity for Jazzmine. Drag queens don’t just get on stage and flail around without a plan. The creation of a stage character is its own art, as much a craft as the costuming and performing.

Erik described Jazzmine as an old soul. 

“It’s a running joke for us at the UC. She’s older. Even though I’m 22, we always dress like she’s 40,” he said. “She’s a little older, she does older songs. In her head she’s supermodeled the world. She is very grand, if only in her head.”

Along with performing as Jazzmine, Erik does character impersonations of celebrities like P!NK and Gwen Stefani. Above all else, Erik uses drag as a platform to remind people not to take life so seriously.

“I’m a man in a wig,” he says. “I don’t care anymore. Who cares? If you can’t laugh at yourself and enjoy life, then you’re not really living.”

Despite his laidback approach to performing and his years of experience, he admits he still finds it nerve-wrecking to be on stage.

“I am still nervous every time a song comes on and the lights hit,” he said. “I always take two shots before the stage.” 

Goldschläger, no chaser. 

“Makes me realize that I’m still a man,” he joked.

Offstage, Erik is a full-time education student. He plans to get a Ph.D. and work with special education students. 

He had some concerns about losing jobs due to employers finding out that he’s a drag queen and decide he’s not fit to work for them anymore. On the other hand, he’s not interested in working for a company that thinks like that.

“I had always told myself, at a certain point I would stop. And I did stop doing this for five or six months not that long ago,” he said about performing. “But taking that break and then coming back made me realize that – as long as I can entertain an audience, and connect to people and teach them that life’s not so serious… I’ll do it as long as I can,” he said. 


